[Music]
hey guys welcome back to another
breakdown Twin Peaks the return this is
episode 12 let's rock Greg and Ryan here
now before we get started make sure to
subscribe to the GameSpot universe
Channel because we got plenty more stuff
we're covering Rick and Morty now Game
of Thrones and breacher okay so every
episode of Twin Peaks
seems to have sort of a central theme no
matter what's going on in the story
there is something that ties a lot of
the scenes together and this one happens
to be patience to another level just
stick with us but be patient right
there's a lot going on with fathers in
this episode right there's a lot of
different fathers a lot of different
father types
we got father issues with honey jam and
Cooper with Van Horn that bike that my
father got for me we also have the
warden Murphy in his situation with this
sign and you know even a little bit I
kind of also feel like Carl rod is a bit
of a father figure even if he's not
anybody's particular father there's a
really great scene with him yeah sort of
being the good guy you know whether or
not we end an episode at the Roadhouse
which happens at least half the time I
think no matter what the end of every
episode the credits start in big bold
letters with Kyle MacLachlan and that's
because he's the one actor who's been in
absolutely every single episode until
now
he was in today's episode Oh what you're
going to count that this episode as a
whole felt like a filler episode to me
as though to solidify that message it
has a lot of filler scenes
Dougy playing catch Jerry in the woods
Miriam in the hospital Carl's looking
out for a neighbor Kate yes seemingly
random characters at the Roadhouse
having a disconnected conversation about
even more random characters during a
return performance by chromatic side
note they're like au revoir Simone are
wearing the same outfits again and in
another brief scene Hutch murders warden
Murphy while Chantal eats Cheetos it's
double whammy now obviously that scene
does more to push the plot forward but
it's still very brief and sort of
disconnected from everything else that
happened in the episode everything in
this episode felt like these are points
they could have put out on any other
episodes but they wanted to just mash it
together just get it out away right now
right and it almost feels like that's
true of the entire episode I don't feel
like it really brought us much last week
part 11 was very rich with Twin Peaks
very full and this feels just like
filler fail yeah despite all that filler
stuff the episode actually kicks off
with Cole and Albert officially bringing
agent am you Preston into the Blue Rose
task force fold as Albert offers her the
position he lists off the other former
FBI at members of the team
Philip Jeffries Dale Cooper and Chester
Desmond all three of them disappeared in
the line of duty of the three Chester
Desmond is the one we still really have
absolutely no clue about and astute
viewer on reddit also pointed out that
besides Dale the other two disappeared
agents were played by musicians David
Bowie and Chris Isaak and now we have
Chris Capel who is also a musician is
she gonna wind up missing - yes is this
the like destiny of any FBI agent played
by a musician now it was clear that
Albert Hall were playing some elements
of the investigate
close to the chest but it was not clear
that Preston was not a full member of
the team yet assuming secret history of
Twin Peaks is canon it seems slightly
odd that she was assigned to
investigating details of this case only
a month earlier which was August 2016
without being a full team member not a
big deal really but just worth pointing
out you know in terms of trying to make
sense of the timelines and things like
that she was put on the case in late
August and the book opens with like the
transfer documents and you know
references to her character being
assigned the investigation and there's
even references to her clearance level
being increased so it just feels a
little bit weird also worth pointing out
is the rich bottle of mint tea score
that goes with this scene which ends
immediately when Gordon announces Diane
is on her way
a few moments later Diane emerges from
the red curtain and enters the study or
parlor or whatever this is
Albert informs her that they want to
bring her onto the team as well in a
deputized capacity and Diane is
skeptical at first but then confirms
with let's rock let's rock harkens back
to two very important moments in the
Twin Peaks storyline Gale Cooper's dream
early in the first season he meets the
arm and Laura Palmer in the red room a
scene that also gave us some you like
he's dying to come but inside that this
takes place in the red room is no doubt
relevant to the FBI meeting also taking
place in the Red Room the other major
instance of let's rock is from fire walk
with me when Dale Cooper is
investigating the disappearance of
Chester Desmond he finds it written
across the windshield of Desmond's car
who is mentioned earlier in the scene by
Albert so let's rock people have had
this episode probably circled on their
calendar for a few weeks now right I
mean it is the episode title that jumps
out at every Twin Peaks fan like you
could not I mean looking forward to part
12 was like such a big deal I thought
man we're either getting something from
the Red Room or the Black Lodge or we're
getting something of Chester Desmond
we've been waiting for his return no
I kind of joked about it being a troll
job last week with everyone at the
Roadhouse just performances from El
burro right right your theory was maybe
an entire episode of just music video
this was something okay back to the FBI
plotline we get three more scenes in the
storyline in this episode in the first
diane exchanges text message again with
her mysterious contact who messages las
vegas to which she replies they haven't
asked yet this raises the question of
how much she actually knows could she be
aware of dougie or other elements of the
Vegas plot they haven't asked yet
definitely suggests that she knows what
the context should be there's also a
later scene at the hotel bar where she
figures out that the coordinates from
Ruth Davenport do actually lead back to
Twin Peaks later on Gordon Cole is
entertaining a French lady in his hotel
room when Albert comes to see him
Albert asked that she leave and she
takes a long time getting out of the
room Gordon pays attention to every move
that she makes
they're definitely echoes of Lille and
fire walk with me here the red dress
specific seaming movements and Kohl's
explanation Albert of her situation with
her family the mother owns a turnip farm
I told her to tell the mother that her
daughter will turn up eventually without
a cypher we really can't be certain
whether there is a code here after
Albert informed Cole of Diane's texting
and they both wonder what information
they would held from her Cole expresses
concern for Albert now Cole could be
concerned about Albert's sense of humor
because he did sort of crack a joke
there but he could also be concerned
that Albert as missing coded messages
remember part 11 when he talked about
cats as though trying to reach Albert
but to no avail
I'm not I'm not totally sold that
there's a lot of coded stuff going on
here I feel like we talked about code
almost every time we talk about the FBI
even when we're not talking about the
FBI like with the bushnell Mullins a
little while back I can just sort of see
it both ways and I don't know if we just
need to wait for it to pan out let's get
on over now to Twin Peaks yeah there
were some short moments you got one with
sheriff Truman coming to visit Ben Horne
and they have a little conversation
again it stretches out for
way too long right they're talking about
Richard mainly yeah Richard which is a
little weird we're going to get into
that a little bit later why we think
it's weird and then also then gives
Truman Dale's room key right and then
like you know typically Lynch in fashion
that T is front and center in both
actors frames the entire conversation
well yeah before anybody says anything
about we got another scene with dr. amp
right still is electric as ever mm-hmm a
lot of that was reused footage but we do
get a new speech from him and at the
very end of it he does talk about the
ninth circle of hell treasonous puppets
the ninth level of hell well welcome you
which is a again a ninth circle of hell
is you're frozen in the icy legs and I
felt like that this whole episode Oh
people are pointing out that it's
starting to look like he could be
attacked by the woodsmen at this place
oh boy yeah I don't know that that's
worrying yeah he's got to defend himself
with the golden shovel the the golden
shovels are like dragonglass they are
the only weapons that work against the
woodsman and then we got Sarah Palmer
whoa did we get Sarah Palmer amazing
acting two scenes with Sarah Palmer this
week that are both very creepy first we
see her at the grocery store where a new
variety of turkey jerky at the cash
register triggers a panic attack she
says a few things suddenly that feel
like they almost have a different
context were you here when they first
came the room seems different and men
are coming I'm trying to tell you that
you have to watch out I almost want to
say it feels like she might have like
mentally just shifted into the
convenience store for a moment like when
she says were you here when they came it
doesn't sound like she's talking about
jerky anymore and somebody's coming
like she still got like one half of her
brain in another dimension and she
totally went there in that moment in a
follow up scene Hawk visits her at home
to tell her that she can call him if she
ever needs any help their conversation
is interrupted by a rustling sound
coming from inside the house she tell
talks that no one is there but that
something is in the kitchen Reddick
points out they could just be the bag
boy be an owl with Mimi and hold it
could be Bob
they could be Laura Bob or just going
around the room or what if it's Mike but
if it's really big ed what if it's James
what if it's okay and now for what is
sort of become my favorite part of every
video that we do our weekly check-in
with dougie Jones okay
still not Dale moving on so that covers
pretty much everything except the
elephant in the room which is obviously
Audrey horns returned poor [ __ ] thing
we haven't seen her in 25 years and for
starters she's married I love she's also
worried about her lover Billy who's
missing Billy were pretty certain is the
same Billy from the Billy Bing Fiasco
from episode 7 and whose truck Richard
ran over the young boy with Audrey had a
dream about him bleeding from the nose
to mouth and points out something that
is all too true in twin peaks and dreams
sometimes harken a truth while they
argue about going to find Billy it comes
out that her husband Charlie is refusing
to sign papers from her lawyer probably
divorce papers but there's also a
previous contract that Audrey threatens
to break so Charlie doesn't really want
to go out to the road house or looking
for Billy and to get out of it he
volunteers to place a phone call to Tina
and it is one harrowing phone call
basically all we get from the phone call
is that Chuck told Charlie that Tina was
the last person to see Billy we don't
know who Chuck is we don't know who Tina
is and other than that we and Audrey get
nothing you're not going to tell me what
she said
you're not going to tell me what she
said Charlie it is a bit of a bizarre
scene and I kind of would actually like
to kick it out to the audience in the
comments to see if anybody like really
sat there and was able to decipher any
more out of that phone conversation of
very one-sided view of that phone
conversation yeah the only thing that I
could come up with is that it's possibly
Richard he doesn't want tell her that
her son just murdered a bunch of people
that seems like the most likely thing
yeah what do we think about this return
of Audrey Horne we waited so long if you
were to tell me weeks ago that okay
you're going to get an episode called
let's rock and Audrey Horne is going to
make her appearance in it oh no this is
going to be the best episode easily
right no matter what happens I'm gonna
love it is gonna be the greatest episode
ever no it didn't turn out that way it I
mean after all the time of speculating
could she be the millionaire that she'd
be pulling strings behind the scenes
like what's it all going to be and what
it is is a thankless marriage cheating
with the truck driver I'm glad she's not
in a coma which is why the rivers right
okay okay that would have been worse yes
if Audrey's reappearance was just coma
the weird thing about the scene too is
that this could have been taken out and
put into episode eleven they could have
had this exact same dialogue and we
wouldn't have missed the thing well I
mean Billy going missing she says was
two days ago in part seven was five
episodes ago this was a filler episode
we need something in there to get people
to talk about it and it had to be Audrey
that's all you really got this episode
is very stable now I would love to see
in context once we have our full 18
episodes where this goes on what this
leads to
but right now obviously there's nothing
you can go off of and it's a little
lackluster to see Audrey come back this
way and I agree where this plotline is
going with Charlie Chuck Tina Billy and
Audrey is too hard to say right
we'll have to wait for next week's
episode to find out but something worth
bringing up in the grand scheme of
things is why Audrey has not been
contacted by the Twin Peaks Police
Department about Richard she is clearly
living in Twin Peaks and she has
acquaintances in common with Richard but
sheriff Truman went to see Ben as far as
service goes Hawk went directly to Sara
Palmer's home after her panic attack at
the grocery store so why didn't anybody
go to see Audrey is there still
something to this theory that Richard
might not be her son I mean she could
have just cast out the boy after she
discovered he was a love child for Bob
and slash Gail Cooper I can see that but
women they still come to her let the man
out okay before getting on over to your
comments let's hit up some Easter eggs
and references we saw in this episode
yeah so it looks like Gordon Cole may
have taken some French lessons that's
the kind of girl that makes you wish you
spoke a little French tres chic that
scene also opens with Cole telling a
dramatic story to the French woman yeah
and it's really similar to Redmond Barry
story for his son and stanley kubrick's
Barry Lyndon the Black Lodge music from
fire walk with me is plain underneath be
seen where Dianne said let's rock and
then it also comes up again during the
scene with Sarah when she freaks out in
the convenience store yeah that's
actually really cool that sort of call
back to the freakiness with the lodge
and also sort of reaffirming our
concerns about Dianne yeah and then you
got the two girls in the Roadhouse at
the end of the episode what are they
drinking heineken kind of beer do you
like Heineken [ __ ] that [ __ ] Pabst Blue
Ribbon also there's possibly an owl
flying over Dougie's house again big
Edie sorta shows up in this episode you
deserve all of the [ __ ] you're gonna get
for that one what okay but legitimately
there are some things with the scene
with Audrey that you looked at while I
felt like we're in that scene for about
an hour and a half I did notice a few
things in the background that could
to give us a little clue so what's going
on here one there's corn hidden right
behind Audry
there's frog book stands you can park it
back to the wings front of a mature
monster thing yeah we got an episode
eight but the biggest thing I notice
back there with the TS Eliot book now it
may be the Four Quartets now from
wikipedia the Four Quartets are four
interlinked meditations with the common
theme being man's relationship with time
the universe and the divine well that
ain't no accident and I'll just read off
a little excerpt from the poem I have
here I said to my soul be still and let
the dark come upon you which shall be
the darkness of God I said to my soul be
still and wait without hope for hope
would be hope for the wrong thing wait
without love for love would be love of
the wrong thing there is yet faith but
the faith and the love and the hope are
all in the waiting wait without thought
for you are not ready for thought so
that darkness shall be the light and the
stillness but dancing let's rock okay
that's all the Easter eggs and theories
let's get into some of the comments we
got on the last video and from people on
Twitter David Rivas hit us up on Twitter
and said found this Native American
tribe symbols the one that hawk refers
to is maybe death or Buffalo maybe I can
totally see this I can see the dark
splash of death mixed with the Buffalo
and its horns image we've seen repeated
on the playing card brings his message
and the map have the horns turned down
though so here's what I'm thinking
Coppola also when it comes to Buffalo
what is Sarah Palmer see Andy jerky um
it has the same things got a little
Buffalo right there's like a little Rams
head that is very also very similar to
that image a lot of you last week also
weighed in on our conjecture and
concerns about agent Albert yep tiny
kitten kisses in the YouTube comments
said Albert is not a bad guy
stop I would say the comment from tiny
kitten kisses which just sounds adorable
anyway was probably one of the least
incendiary of the comments and I just
want to clear the air a little bit
I love agent Albert he's my hero from
the original series and I don't want him
to be bad either I'm just seeing these
things that make me a little bit nervous
something's going on with the FBI if the
Jeffries is this all a dream and Phil
Jeffries head right now we don't know we
got the glitching windows on the
airplane they got the glitching door
just little things that tell you this
could all be someone's dream at least in
the FBI's perspective right and it just
feels like something has to be off
somewhere in that equation yeah
thanks everybody for watching again let
us know if we missed anything in the
comments section below what did you
think about this episode I thought was
one of the weakest one so far it was
like filler and a show of its head so
much filler already filler within filler
it's still very Lynch also you can hit
us up on Twitter our handles are done in
the description later guys